The other demo here is buffer geometry.
I'm not gonna try and
code this from scratch,
because it's a little bit more
complex even than what I just did.
But it's also good to be aware of this.
Basically we have geometries,
which is sort of the simple
version, which is what we
were looking at before,
and geometry allows us to specify
vertices as vector threes.
And it also allows us to specify
the indexes into those, this vertex array.
So it allows us to specify the face and
also specify other things to do with
the face, like the color of the face.
Or maybe the normals of the face or
some other attribute of the face.
But when we deal with
more custom geometries,
let's say we wanted to start to
load a model from a file, and
we wanted to maybe load a model that's
not an OBJ file and not a gltf.
Or it's not some file that we're
getting from cinema 4d, but
maybe it's like a data set
of millions of points or
millions of stars and the positions of the
stars, or something like that in the sky.
And so that might be just given to us in
a CSV or in a JSON file that has to do
with the positions of all these
different points in space.
And so we could use buffer geometries
to just take that data and
turn it into a flat array
of float 32 vertices.
And so the structure is a little bit
different, because we're still able
to use server vector 3, this vector
3 array just like we were before.
But the difference is, before we
pass this to the buffer geometry,
which is this more advanced class, we
have to flatten it into a flat structure,
that's gonna just look like this, where
the first vertex is gonna be like this,
the second vertex is gonna be like this,
the third vertex, and so on and so forth.
So x2, y2, z2.
And this is just a float 32 array, which
is a typed array, which just is a way of
saying it's an array, but it's a fancy
array, and it has numbers in it, and
each of those numbers is going
to correspond with the vertex.
And so it's a little bit
more complicated to set up.
It's definitely not something that is
super easy to do off the top of your head.
But, if you wanted to look into this,
we can start to dive into this more and
more in the afternoon with some
of the more complex examples.
Cuz this will tie in really
well with shaders as well.
When we start to work with shaders,
we're gonna sometimes want to pass in very
specific information into the vertices and
into the objects.
And we can do that with buffer geometries.
Because if we wanted to pass custom
attributes and custom properties with
just a regular geometry class,
it wouldn't really be possible.
And so that's where we have
to use this buffer geometry.
So yeah, that's kind of the idea
of buffer geometry here.
A really good example of it is this,
this more advanced example, because it
shows how we can create hundreds or
potentially thousands of particles.
And they're all sort of squashed into
the same batch, the same geometry.
And so when we actually go to
render this shape on the GPU,
the shape will say okay,
we've got a buffer geometry.
And the buffer geometry might have,
here it has 250 particles,
but we can make this really big,
2500, or smaller.
And all of these are squashed into
the same float 32 array that I was
just talking about.
And that's what gonna give us the ability
to draw thousands of things in a single
draw call.
And so it'll be really,
really fast, really efficient,
and really great for things like particle
systems or for data visualization,
and so on and so forth,
where we have a lot of points.
And we wanna render them efficiently.
We're gonna talk about how do we have
these points but then manipulate them,
because it's just static right now,
it's just a static geometry.
But we might want to move these vertices,
we might want to shade them in
different ways, and so on and so forth.
So yeah, this one,
this sort of buffer geometry stuff
is a little bit more nebulous.
It's definitely something that takes
a little bit more time to wrap your head
around, even just,
as you saw when I was coding the vertices,
I was sort of struggling
through the coordinates, and
trying to wrap my head around
how how those line up.
And that's because there's just a lot
of complexity in trying to
define manual sort of geometry.
But quite often, what I end up doing
is I just take an existing geometry,
like a plane or a cube or a sphere, and
I manipulate the vertices, by just going
through the vertices and maybe randomizing
some of the XYZ components, or
maybe using noise on
some of those components.
So it's not always manually typing out
each triangle or anything like that.
>> Which of your examples were
using the buffer geometry?
>> So if we look in the three dash demos,
there's two of them that
are using buffer geometries.
One of them is the one that
just says buffer geometry and
the other ones that says
buffer geometry advanced.
Those two are using buffer geometries.
This one is actually also using a buffer
geometry, but it's again like I was saying
I like to manipulate spheres and existing
meshes rather than have to manually define
all the triangle positions for
the sphere, which would just be hell.